---
title: This is a test post
date: 2022-09-28T17:12:09.350Z
description: This is something else.
---
Whether they know it or not, most Americans today surrender their personal information to engage in the most basic aspects of modern life. When they buy groceries, do homework, or apply for car insurance, for example, consumers today likely give a wide range of personal information about themselves to companies, including their movements, [(1)](<>) prayers, [(2)](<>) friends, [(3)](<>) menstrual cycles, [(4)](<>) web-browsing, [(5)](<>) and faces, [(6)](<>) among other basic aspects of their lives.

Companies, meanwhile, develop and market products and services to collect and monetize this data. An elaborate and lucrative market for the collection, retention, aggregation, analysis, and onward disclosure of consumer data incentivizes many of the services and products on which people have come to rely. Businesses reportedly use this information to target services—namely, to set prices, [(7)](<>) curate newsfeeds, [(8)](<>) serve advertisements, [(9)](<>) and conduct research on people's behavior, [(10)](<>) among other things. While, in theory, these personalization practices have the potential to benefit consumers, reports note that they have facilitated consumer harms that can be difficult if not impossible for any one person to avoid. [(11)](<>)

Some companies, moreover, reportedly claim to collect consumer data for one stated purpose but then also use it for other purposes. [(12)](<>) Many such firms, for example, sell or otherwise monetize such information or compilations of it in their dealings with advertisers, data brokers, and other third parties. [(13)](<>) These practices also appear to exist outside of the retail consumer setting. Some employers, for example, reportedly collect an assortment of worker data to evaluate productivity, among other reasons  [(14)](<>) —a practice that has become far more pervasive since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. [(15)](<>)

Many companies engage in these practices pursuant to the ostensible consent that they obtain from their consumers. [(16)](<>) But, as networked devices and online services become essential to navigating daily life, consumers may have little choice but to accept the terms that firms offer. [(17)](<>) Reports suggest that consumers have become resigned to the ways in which companies collect and monetize their information, largely because consumers have little to no actual control over what happens to their information once companies collect it. [(18)](<>)

In any event, the permissions that consumers give may not always be meaningful or informed. Studies have shown that most people do not generally understand the market for consumer data that operates beyond their monitors and displays. [(19)](<>) Most consumers, for example, know little about the data brokers and third parties who collect and trade consumer data or build consumer profiles  [(20)](<>) that can expose intimate details about their lives and, in the wrong hands, could expose unsuspecting people to future harm. 21 Many privacy notices that acknowledge such risks are reportedly not readable to the average consumer. [(22)](<>) Many consumers do not have the time to review lengthy privacy notices for each of their devices, applications, websites, or services, [(23)](<>) let alone the periodic updates to them. If consumers do not have meaningful access to this information, they cannot make informed decisions about the costs and benefits of using different services. [(24)](<>)

This information asymmetry between companies and consumer runs even deeper. Companies can use the information that they collect to direct consumers' online experiences in ways that are rarely apparent—and in ways that go well beyond merely providing the products or services for which consumers believe they sign up. [(25)](<>) The Commission's enforcement actions have targeted several pernicious dark pattern practices, including burying privacy settings behind multiple layers of the user interface  [(26)](<>) and making misleading representations to “trick or trap” consumers into providing personal information. [(27)](<>) In other instances, firms may misrepresent or fail to communicate clearly how they use and protect people's data. [(28)](<>) Given the reported scale and pervasiveness of such practices, individual consumer consent may be irrelevant.